[Music]
all right the rog phone five these are
some crazy cool phones this year
they are significantly improved from the
previous generation
and they're very powerful like they're
just stacked they're marketed as gaming
phones they're
very powerful in that sense but they're
just awesome phones that i think
most people who enjoy phones and
appreciate powerful stuff
you're gonna like this phone okay let's
start off with the design real quick
here
so there's two phones i have here the
regular bass rog phone five as well as
the
ultimate edition the first thing they've
gone away with the
kind of design gimmicks that they used
to do on the previous iterations so rg1
two and three they had these design
elements on the back of the phone to
give the
illusion as if there's some kind of
thermal dissipation or
thermal element on the exterior those
weren't particularly functional and
they've
gotten rid of all that stuff it's just a
nice aesthetic back now
so the regular rg phone 5 has a glossy
glass back there's some red accents
but the rog logo lights up and you can
control it pretty extensively in
software
i've seen a lot of rgb lit phones before
like this tech isn't new
but this feels really well engineered
they've done it in a nice manner so it
doesn't protrude it doesn't feel like
some afterthought
it feels like it was built to have this
kind of lighting and it looks
really nice it actually reminds me of
the lighting on the g14
zephyrus laptop the other device i have
here is the ultimate edition
and this one this one slaps
this is a white and blue backed phone
and it's got this kind of matte
pearlescent finish to it it's not like a
glossy finish it's got this
super clean vibe to it and there's also
this monochrome
oled screen on the back of it and this
is so cool to me
it's once again flush to the back of the
device it feels really well built it
doesn't feel like they just
added this in at the last second and you
can customize it you can have it show
battery percentage you can have it show
an incoming call like not
caller id but just a notification that
calls coming through
and you can customize it with your own
artwork it's really cool they've clearly
put a lot of thought into this
and the image actually rotates depending
on the orientation of the phone so it's
never
like an upside down image they've done a
good job on this thing
there's also a brightly colored sim tray
on both these phones the white one has
this bright blue and then the
base model in black has a red one and
they both have
good luck have fun etched right into
them i do wish
that the white one like the ultimate
edition had a different
colored trim like the frame of the phone
was like
silver or also white i feel like that
would have looked better but
this still looks really cool okay so the
actual functionality of these phones
what makes them special makes them
different from
regular non-gaming phones is really
performance these are running snapdragon
triple eights but because of thermal
engineering they're doing it can get rid
of the heat
better so asus does this stacked pcb
thing here so two layers on top of each
other
and it uses a vapor chamber graphite
materials to get the heat out of the
system
and in very demanding games that push
the system hard
you will notice a difference in
sustained performance one thing that
you'll notice is that the pcb
on the rg phone five is right in the
middle of the phone so it allows the
heat to disperse more
evenly and it also allows them to run a
split battery system which we'll talk
about in a second
there's also air triggers on the top of
the device i guess top
in landscape mode there's touch
sensitive areas that you can use as
shoulder buttons on a controller in the
first few generations
of the rg phones i never liked them like
the technology was cool
very good idea but they just never felt
responsive enough they've tweaked it to
the point where it feels a lot better
it's not perfect right it's not going to
feel like a regular
shoulder button on a controller because
there's no travel when you press it it's
just
a touch sensitive impact but it's good
you also have key mapping and you can
add crosshairs to your games if they
don't have them and there's also
an inverted color mode so you can spot
enemies a little bit easier in the dark
it's kind of questionable as to how fair
all this stuff is like there are certain
games out there that if you have a
crosshair and if you have
the ability to flip into negative colors
it can give you a really clear advantage
but
the onus is on you uh there's also a
usbc port on the side so you can charge
your phone while you're playing games
without the cable getting in the way
and there is of course the active cooler
the fan so
this has been redesigned for this year
it now connects to the phone using a
different mechanism it used to connect
with a usbc pass-through now it uses
some pogo pins on the bottom which i
think is a
better connection system and this when
connected gives you some back buttons it
gives you
rgb lighting on the back as well as a
kickstand now from my test it doesn't
reduce
the thermals by a ton it's like three
maybe four degrees cooler
on the surface when you have the fan
running if you're hard to the core with
mobile games then maybe
this is something you'd want to
implement in all your gaming but i think
for most people they just go
without it but it does come with the
ultimate edition it's a separate add-on
if you purchase the basic model but
on the white super duper edition it
comes in the box
the speakers on the rg phone five are
really good they're loud they're clear
and the stair separation is fantastic
they've always been good though right
the rg123 they've always had great
speaker systems in these phones and
they're just
even better this year they're noticeably
louder i will say though and i said this
last year as well that if you're in
portrait mode like if you're scrolling
through reddit and you're watching a
video in vertical
the stereo separation now it's going
from the top and the bottom
it's very distinct it's almost jarring
but the sound system is
excellent for gaming and for media
consumption there's also
the return of the headphone jack if i'm
not mistaken this is the first phone
that comes to my memory that where they
removed the headphone jack one year and
then they brought it back
last year on the rg phone 3 i ripped
into them for not
including the jack i know there are
reasons like they were saying that there
was space limitations because of the 5g
antennas
whatever the reason it just didn't make
sense to me that a gaming phone wouldn't
have a headphone jack
they brought it back and this isn't just
for gaming right anyone who's purchasing
a phone like this would appreciate a
headphone jack so
i'm glad it's back and it's got a really
high quality dac to it it's an ess quad
deck
it's a good one now the screen has some
bigger bezels on the top and bottom like
the
forehead and the chin of the device i
feel like on a device like this you have
to have
big bezels like it's a gaming phone
right your phone is often in landscape
mode and your
palms are touching the side of the thing
you do not want accidental clicks you
don't want
accidental swipes on this thing i'm glad
that they included
or they kept bigger bezels it's not as
big as the rg phone 3 but
i wouldn't want them any thinner than
this and i also think that the
quality speakers that are behind these
bigger bezels
like you got to have big bezels on a
device like this i'm glad that they're
in there so if you're looking at this
and you're like
those bezels are too thick you're wrong
they built it like this on purpose
the screen itself is 1080p 144hz it's a
very fast and fluid gaming screen but it
doesn't get super bright
it's 800 nits at the top end and i feel
like on a device like this
if you're playing games indoors
perfectly fine but the moment you go
outdoors
you will notice a deficiency it's not
massive but if you compare it to like a
oneplus phone or a samsung phone like
those are like the best screens
this does feel a little bit dimmer than
you might like
the battery is still huge it's a 6 000
milliamp hour battery it's the same size
as the previous rg phone 3
however this year they've split it into
two separate batteries so three thousand
milliamp hours
per battery and because they're two
separate batteries you can charge them
simultaneously with one 65 wire charger
it's super fast charging
and because of this split battery design
you get better thermal performance as
these batteries are being charged
they're just able to handle the heat in
a more efficient manner
now asus also allows the user to adjust
the charging options so instead of it
going to 100 charge
every time they allow the user to tweak
it down to 90 or even 80
and this extends the life or the
durability of the battery just basically
the more you charge your phone to its
full capacity the worse it is for a
battery
over a long period of time so by
allowing the user to tweak that stuff
it just makes these phones last a little
bit longer which is nice to see on an
enthusiast phone like this
now the camera systems i'm not going to
go too in-depth on the camera because
that's clearly not the focus of the
phone
but it shoots reasonably well with
pretty good dynamic range and low light
photography but one thing i noticed and
i'm not sure if this is just
with like early software the battery was
chewing through really quickly when i
was using the camera i don't know if
this is something they'll tweak over
time with software but it's something i
noticed
now overall i feel like the rog phone
five is
excessively awesome everything about it
is just over the top right 18 gigs of
ram
crazy speaker system super fast screen
super fast charging
this is just everything amped up right
it is at the heart a gaming phone and
even the unboxing
is this augmented reality experience
it's a really cool phone
but the more i used it the more i
appreciated it not just as a gaming
phone but just a really good phone
overall i love the speakers
i love the presence of the headphone
jack i love the big battery
they did a really good job this year
like a really fantastic job and the blue
and white
doesn't hurt at least on my books uh i
don't think
it's perfect obviously there's a couple
things that i feel like they should have
done with this
i feel like on a gaming phone it should
have expandable storage
i've said this in rg devices as well but
especially now because this is so
powerful you can do so much stuff on it
i think a lot of people would appreciate
secondary expandable storage secondly i
feel like they
should have or could have done a better
job on the
ultimate edition like i love the color
obviously but if this was tied in with
some kind of like super popular game
like the way that oneplus did it with
the cyberpunk phone right
that was done that was done so well like
look at this thing
this thing like you like this is a
special edition
right and this is not even a gaming
phone per se but they tied it in with
the game and it's like
iconically cyberpunk i don't know i feel
like this could have been a little bit
better but the third thing
is water resistance because i noticed
the sim card tray did not have a rubber
gasket i feel like this phone is
probably more susceptible to water
damage than your average smartphone
in 2021 and i get it there's a lot of
ports
really difficult to seal all that stuff
and the people buying this phone
probably aren't scuba diving with it
but i just i would have liked to seen
that especially
for a premium phone like this but
overall rog phone five
yeah they did a good one this year okay
hope you guys enjoyed this video thumbs
if you liked it subs if you loved it
see you guys next time